[Music]
hello hello everyone welcome to this
week's episode of the patreon
my name is james i'm
and i'm not here right now
he's not um we're recording this early
um no i'm also projecting from ontario
yeah
we're recording this early because nick
is going on a trip to see his family for
the first time in two years
so if we say anything off color because
something has happened in the world
that we would not have been able to
predict uh we preemptively apologize i
can't imagine we would though i don't
really like unless i don't know we might
make fun of someone who's dead or
something yeah yeah
although i'm of the philosophy that dead
people are not beyond reproach like just
because they're dead
yeah
sorry nancy reagan like
i don't want to say nice things about
you because you're dead the bushes
any how is big cheney still alive
because he's a robot
this is procedurally replacing
like i mean like it's you can't write
irony as good as this the fact that he's
had to have his heart replaced so many
times yeah i mean isn't it a pig's heart
now
i don't that actually sounds familiar
but like just like
he wears out his heart so quickly yeah
like
which is like wow
no in a metaphorical context like you
know the guy has no heart yeah his heart
shrivels up inside of his chest because
he's heartless he's a [ __ ] grinch
um he's someone that i will not be shy
about saying bad things about if he dies
i mean we as a society need to get more
comfortable talking about that yeah we
need to stop pretending that nancy
reagan was a good person hillary clinton
said a champion of human rights
i'm like direct quote
at least bernie had the sense to just
say as little as possible like bish she
let her friend
her good friend
just die of aids
and gave no [ __ ] zero [ __ ] and it's
not like she could have saved him but
you know they could have allocated some
money to
you know aids stuff anyway but it came
to like the reagan administration she
honestly pulled the strings like she
twisted her twist her [ __ ] mind
reader
she could twist her husband's arm so far
at almost as far as his donors um anyway
we're not here to talk about that no
we're not um
start we're actually here to talk about
what gives us joy
and
what has stopped giving us joy and this
tarp week has storped and this stuff
because last week uh we were talking
about um last week on the padreal we
were talking
just like the old comic books don't like
c issue 262. um i had an episode 262. oh
god uh but yeah um
are trixie and kochi even on no no they
just close to 200. okay they're almost
200.
um
but we were talking about how
you know like sent like what we do to
kind of unwind and i was like you know i
don't really have anything anymore and i
am feeling
very rudderless
in my ability to diminish my stress
level
um and so we got the idea like why don't
we just talk about that like i can talk
about it
um
so
things that we're a fan of
well yeah uh let's start off we're fans
of yeah the positive like some things
that bring me joy yeah like
obviously you know like playing
minecraft and lego and stuff like that
media wise things that consistently
cheer me up are like bob's burgers
um
i can re-watch bob's burgers on a loop
grace and frankie which ended recently
but i still watch all the time 30 rock
every now and then you put the series 30
rock um the christopher and eric podcast
tdp tdps presents christopher and eric
podcast that's uh eric shaw quinn and
christopher rice they're fabulous what
we do in the shadows
let's see i've never really i love what
we do in the shadows but i've never
really re-watched it i'm gonna re-watch
it just because i really want to um um
but like uh other pot the bad gays
podcast i've listened to a bunch of that
uh things like that that just kind of i
can listen to or watch and
they kind of lift me up a little bit
um
whereas
it's a nice breather from
you know being on twitter and just
seeing
hellfire and brimstone rain down upon me
i think that's why i'm so negative
lately is like twitter is kind of my
go-to like default place to exist in
yeah that's not good yeah i should stick
i should go back to the the free the
free patreon and the free discord um
the free patreon i've got some bros hoes
and
those
non-binary people peeps friends there
yeah we talk a lot
um
so like i i am
i am kind of at a remiss for things that
really kind of just give me that sense
of belonging and sense of like existence
um
what i i i i i
i i'm trying to play off of you
oh i thought like
i thought that you wanted to talk about
like
the marvel situation well yeah but like
that's better when it's discussion
okay so
um
i feel like i'm being read for film oh
yeah because you're on your computer
i'm sorry yeah and so like i have the
computer open so i can look stuff up
it's hard for me to engage with you when
you're clicking through things
okay sorry
um because then i'm just that's kind of
just on me to just talk ad nauseam which
normally isn't a problem but i do feel a
little bit self-conscious when i do have
to do too much of that
okay um usually you get angry at me for
talking too much well yeah but i also
hate being left out on a on the end of a
stick stick branch stick branch wrench
branch stick french brick it's a gay
brick stench
stanch okay
um
so yeah one thing that you that like for
a very long time you in particular like
that brought you a lot of joy was
the marvel just not the mcu but marvel
comics like the whole marvel universe i
used to be a pretty big fan of things
like i was a big star wars fan i never
lead games with the extended universe
because i didn't really like a lot a lot
of it had this stank on it
um yeah like some of the extended
universe like the original thrawn
trilogy by timothy zahn was like
in my opinion the perfect sequel trilogy
and then there were other things like
princess leia's only first appearance in
a novel was she was spending the time
planning her wedding and
she was switching her name to leia solo
even though the house of organa was a
royal house of alderaan and now we've
learned solo is a bastard name yeah and
and so she was just okay switching her
name to like that daenerys snow yeah and
and even like the with the new trilogy
you know like um ben solo like no that's
ben organa yeah like you like like and
once once again we are trapped in our
weird judeo-christian
people
it's not judeo-christian it's
yeah because the the the
the jewish culture is matriarchal yeah
um so it's it's it's it's specifically a
patriarchal handing down your name from
your father the reason that uh women had
to change their names when they got
married to a man is so that the child
would have the father's name yeah um
because the child was automatically give
given the mother's last surname i saw a
tweet last night of some [ __ ] saying
how um trans people are evil and hateful
to their parents because they change
their names and when you change any part
of your name you are disassociating from
your parents and you're saying that what
your parents gave you wasn't good enough
sounds like a parent of a trans child
and i just love all of the comments
we're like
what about when a woman changes her name
after she gets married it's like that's
different no no
i've seen a lot of trans people actually
really complain about that like okay i
changed my first name
why is it taking you months to figure
that out when before the wedding even
happens it's mrs whomever for for a
cousin or something which i actually
liked um
a guy i follow
uh
he's trans and he was talking about
he was retweeting this and he was like
ha checkmate i let my parents pick my
name
you know i i i hate to talk about like
just luca lore but like you know um
my character go to nther.ntheurgot.com
to buy your copy of gentlemen's club
now
that's nt her god that's
n-t-h-e-r-r-g-o-t-t
dot
and uh it's a great book you should read
it and especially because it's pride
month [ __ ] right go read some queer
literature right with a queer we're
talking about marvel with a queer
superhero
who's horny he is he yeah who's not just
incidentally queer so and is fighting
against
socialism kind of no he's fighting
against bad uh
ideologically bad socialism it's not
even about like oh the socialists do go
too far it's like the villain's so like
political theory is lacking
so yeah he hasn't thought it through
yeah he has not thought it through and
he's ex the worst thing is he's
excluding the people that he is trying
to help yeah from his process of helping
them anyway um michael go buy it it's a
video the fastest shipping is via amazon
but you can buy it on all the book
places trans people and names is that um
uh luca
got to choose his first name his family
was comfortable with that but his middle
name
and his hebrew name were chosen by his
father and grandmother
wait is it pride month next month i
think today is pride today is june 1st
i think we don't know what the day is
we're recording in advance
nope today is june 31st well tomorrow's
pride month so start it off right anyway
uh today was april no may 31st
we're lost in 2022. time what a concept
uh
i haven't watched the second season of
that yet i really we should wait until i
get back okay i'm fine
i am going to see bob's burgers while
you're gone though if the bob's probably
gonna
i'll take my mom to see it which came
out this past weekend i'll take my mom
to see it or we'll watch it together
because my mom is linda yeah uh like 2 a
t like she will say something i'm not
linda and then say something immediately
like and i pull a quote from the
internet it's like almost identical
uh
yeah like like we were saying like bob's
burgers is something that gives me a lot
of joy and nice segue back into the
topic
you were talking about
uh star wars so how has star wars gone
from something that you love to
something you have well like i said the
the extended universe was always a
little bit stanky like even like i
engaged with the video games because i i
like lucasart as the company even though
they had
they were at a pretty much like 50 50 in
terms of hits and misses but their hits
were hits
and that they hit hard
um so like engage with their because
they um especially like the next
republican and honestly that's what the
public too is shafted so hard it could
have been so much better uh i wonder if
for the remake of knights of the old
republic if they're going to smush them
together i'm so
excited that they will and afraid that
they will
because like there is a lot it that's
totally public too in terms of just how
much game is there
is like five times as much and that's
the problem this oblivion was shot had
to
com was uh put under crunch to complete
it yeah and so so much had to get cut
from the final game and the final game
was so buggy but it was so good because
i feel like there's no promise of the
sequel
because like as far like i haven't
played them because the game what i
would like to see what i would like to
see
is for them to kind of they can't do the
rev reveal so they need to have
something else going on to kind of drive
the narrative tension like i i wouldn't
be surprised if it's actually revealed
fairly early on that you are revan just
to kind of get it out of the way um and
like let's get some something else out
there i don't know because like when you
actually look at how many copies of
knights of the old republic sold
not that many but the thing is like you
know like it's going to be on gaming
news media
everywhere yeah um so like you know
twitter will be a light kind of like i
don't know kind of like you know like oh
we're going to the game we're going to
get to the rev reveal and it's like it
happens like two hours into the game
like what yeah um like that's a reveal
and then like something and then you
find out do you know who was planning it
all along
[Laughter]
the same time travel that was used to
save ashoka in uh rebels um
palpatine did that he went but when when
rey killed him he actually used the
force to go back in time to
retroactively conquer the guy and that's
what spurred everything that's why
there's a remake and not just the
original game because the the timeline
diverged
oh god
disney don't do it so it's not there's
no doubt behind it all right there okay
okay because it's not ea it's not ea
okay i thought it was like an indie
studio anyway i'm getting excited um so
yes i think something gives me joy
because like what anyways what i'd like
to see is like have the game the big
reveal have hints to other things that
will prelude the second game like kind
of reference crea reference some of the
other masters reference the seth seth
triumvirate um and that way like if the
game does do well you can make a sequel
that not only picks off on this game but
can conti can because we have account
migration now can pick up where we where
you left off with revan yeah um so that
you can have like two uh customizable
characters both revan and the exile
um
anyway
so yeah so as you can tell star wars
used to be like your star wars used to
be your thing yeah yeah the mythology
the larger mythology not the massage
star wars for me was always like it was
something i enjoyed but it wasn't like
my thing i was like i was a fan of star
i became a fan of star wars the same
time i was a fan of wrestling so
wrestling was my thing yeah that was
your thing like star wars was something
fun but wrestling was like
that was like yeah because like i like
my jam about star wars is like i really
like the philosophic the female
philosopher philosophical aspects and
not the metaphysical bits that everyone
in the fandom clings to like oh the
light side versus the dark side no i
liked the ethics of like what to do with
power what to do with vulnerability um
whether it's more important to save your
friends in cloud city or train with
master yoda for a while so that you can
guaranteed a take down the emperor
short-term gains versus long-term stuff
yeah and like you know like the the more
kind of uh taoist referential
elements of the force that the fans
continuously
ignore that taoism is a real philosophy
and they could use that to well fans and
modern creators can like use as a model
for creation instead of focusing on this
kind of hashed out like force gods thing
that was introduced in freaking rebels
yeah um
no no no no that wasn't introduced in
rebels that was introduced in
uh as i recall in the the final books
that were published in the original
extended universe
that law i think the book was like it
was like 23 23 books in the series it
was in there that those
force god type things were created yeah
which i with malik no not malik i i just
think that's dumb i think that is so
dumb um i the force as like you know a
god that's dumb
it's more interesting if it is an
amorphous
uh morally ambiguous um energy source
like they say it flows through all
things taoist philosophy um and that you
know like jedi accrue their power by
um
relinquishing their free will and
succumbing to what the force wants them
to be where they need to be and that's
how they can overpower the sith because
the force is behind them whereas the
sith drive their power from essentially
swimming against the flow swimming
against the current yeah um weak
swimmers will perish
strong swimmers will thrive yeah um and
so that's why the dark side obvious
skates
um the agitator's ability to perceive
the future because their will is
superseding what the force wants yeah uh
and so like the south philosophy in this
context is like it's one sith versus the
entire universe and so a truly powerful
sith will be able to dominate and
redirect direct their force to their
will right um which is way more
interesting than there were some gods
once and they had a disagreement about
something and now all of our squabbles
are basically derived from their um
their willpower and their objectives
yeah and that just sounds boring it
doesn't it closes down the number of
available plot lines so we can already
see where i'm beginning to sort of
distance myself from stars but i kind of
kept on like okay this isn't
this is quote official star wars
merchandise but it's tough george
lucas's approach to approving um
extra media content was like basically a
shrug and a nod yeah um because i've
even seen
a lot of um
aboleth was like the the demon that
star wars creators of these books kind
of point out like yeah i made some
mistakes about these things it was late
at night when i was writing it's like
okay but it's your job
the way i kind of look at it is and you
know this is also something that i'm
having a problem with with
disney's ownership of star wars is that
there doesn't seem to be a guiding force
to make sure enforcement there's no to
make sure they're doing dark side stuff
they're swimming against the flow to
make sure that everything fits that
there's someone who's like okay so
here's the book pitch for a new leia
book and in this book bloody bloody blog
because there are star wars nerds out
here who know all of this who can say
actually no that can't happen because in
you know
uh 22 bby
this happened and this happened and so
that can't happen because that
contradicts something that happened
between empire and jedi yeah and because
they exist
they have already done the research for
free all you gotta do is well yeah i
know but like all you gotta do is pay
them like
this wikipedia is like kinda cringe
because everyone contributing takes it
so
seriously but that's the thing is that
you need someone who takes it you know i
mean like you know like that like disney
does you know how in rise of skywalker
how we had the gay kiss of the autofocus
gay kiss for like um
about one and a half seconds three and a
half seconds and then it cut away to the
slug thing yeah um that slug has a name
that slug is gendered male
and because you know space slugs have
gender um
which is another thing that bothers me
about the fandom as a whole is that they
impose our very
uh
christian puritanical remnant values on
space societies
um
yeah
uh and so like you know like that thing
has a name it has a backstory everything
is there and it's like
can't a slug just be a slug yeah and as
wikipedia is constantly compared against
the transformers wikipedia um i forget
which one it was but it's a specific one
that kind of oh transformers is worse it
kind of acknowled it it tells you the
details well there's so many different
canons in turn i know but it takes that
into consideration it doesn't sort of
say like in some versions this happens
in summers apparently
the transformers wikipedia
actively acknowledges that there are
contradictions and diff and problems
with this media and that there are
outrageous things and it's kind and kind
of approaches it with more
tongue-in-cheek sort of thing i like
this i'm on wikipedia right now and
there's actually a thing at the top
where you can look at the canon version
of something and then the legends
version of something i like that yep
it's been there since they um reset it
since disney was like
um i love that disney uh immediately
nixed the extended universe and the
first thing they did is [ __ ] with
lightsaber crystals which was one thing
that no one really complained about and
everyone really really liked the way
that it was before is that jedi
mind their crystals for their
lightsabers the sith synthesized them uh
because they couldn't have access and
synthesized lightsabers were red yeah
and synthesized lightsabers were red and
the sith took that as this is a
indication of our power and superiority
because we can create with the jedi
repurpose yeah and that fits even like
cleanly into the overlying philosophies
of the jedi and the scene
i even liked that playing into episode
seven where it was like kylo ren did it
and he kind of was lazy about it and
that's why his lightsaber was amazing so
much lore that you just threw away
because the ashoka book said oh no the
lightsaber crystals start crying when
they kill someone
[ __ ]
so we are seeing the cracks in where i
started to distance myself from star
wars because i could ignore the books
the books did their own things and you
know like you said there was no guiding
hand george lucas didn't give a [ __ ]
yeah which i must say
as of star wars like i said i was never
a huge fan of star wars like although i
probably played rogue squadron more than
almost any game other than wrestlemania
yeah like i had like rogue squadron
wrestlemania 2000 were my two games on
n64 that i played to death
um
like i don't know how the character is
george lucas didn't give a [ __ ] i mean
that in a very loving way like that
wasn't his baby those were other things
babies he didn't really yeah his baby
was the movies yeah and everything and
he wanted he wants in the video games he
had a huge hand in those like like he
was but he wanted star wars to kind of
be like an open source kind of thing
yeah yeah um which you know god bless
him um
disney is going in the opposite
direction i hate them uh but
we'll get back to that yeah um but like
i was never a huge star wars fan and
like in the last couple of years the two
things that have come out of star wars
that have been my favorite things have
been obviously the last jedi was that
which i recently released a short little
video about uh how the last jedi gives
me hope which has like no views and you
converted a few but you confronted a few
people did you convince a couple of
people who hated last jedi success and
their fallen order was also not just
because cameron monahan fallen order was
like a legitimately good story i loved
how they did it like it was so good like
it it's hard for me to get into
narrative video games but fallen order i
just dove into and adored and it wasn't
just because i got to stare at cameron
monahan the whole time it was like it
had good gameplay and good good
mechanics i am super [ __ ] excited for
the sequel yeah yeah but like
i liked the first season of the
mandalorian didn't love it
uh i have a stuffed baby yoda i don't
care if his name is grogue who's baby
baby
um
i have a stuffed baby yoda um
uh you got the the mandalorian ship
which has been blown up yes i love that
as soon as they establish a um household
iconogra icon uh they destroy it
yeah for no reason it's like you don't
destroy the millennium falcon in the
second [ __ ] movie it's like renaming
the slave one two boba fett [ __ ] it's
just stupid yeah because boba fett's a
hero now and as a hero he doesn't engage
in bounty hunting and and they tried to
make him a hero and everybody hated it
and that's why his show had really bad
ratings um
the two best episodes of his show were
the ones where mando came back yeah um
but uh
i didn't watch the boba fett i watched
one episode of boba fett i think i
watched one episode of the second season
the mandalorian that's the one where
luke shows up at the end
um so bad
like i i have not been in and i hated
episode nine um have not been into star
wars whole bunch lately and this makes
me sad because i was on top of star wars
media that excuse me that wasn't books
like new movies new games i consumed it
all
and like this is and i'm sure you've
been listening as you've been listening
you've noticed that i've pointed out
some things that i'm very not happy with
and where george lucas and this is this
is like kind of a new development
because like when episode seven was
coming out we went to see that like
three times opening weekend yeah like
we like star wars night that they they
they that toys r us was um
uh so we were in line for the toy room
at midnight yeah and then we couldn't
get any so i went to walmart at 6 00 a.m
the next morning and grabbed them um
and like we were excited for that we
liked it the last jedi was fantastic but
then star wars has just been kind of
having a [ __ ] [ __ ] having a [ __ ] that's
a good way to put it having a [ __ ] um so
like
star wars
was and to sort of explain how important
this is to me star wars is the
formative media of my life of my ability
to craft stories of my ability to
generate characters um it it was the
foundation of how i wanted and still
want to kind of impart emotions to
people who consume my media yeah um
for whatever reason emotional simplicity
philosophical mixing with action like
empire strikes back is like just so good
well yeah but it was like star wars for
you was like batman for me yeah and well
i have this
i have i've read like you know the
batman comics like i have a shelf full
of batman uh comics collected like all
of the major storylines um from no man's
land nightfall like all three volumes of
nightfall um obviously you know like
year one dark knight returns all of that
kind of stuff um quarterbacks i think
you have the court of allah the court of
owl's the man who laughs like all of it
yeah like i
or a couple of years i just like binged
the batman stuff because i'd always been
a fan of batman but i was like oh
there's like literally decades of batman
stories that i haven't read almost a
century at this point getting there and
so like i just kind of went through them
and read them all and i loved them and i
discovered new characters and stuff and
batman
hasn't let me down
because the batman was an amazing movie
yeah um but like
that was kind of my star wars since i
was a kid
and
so like it's like and just to sort of
explain like it wasn't like oh one thing
and then i didn't like it and then i
turned away like a lot of the other star
wars bros like i loved everything unless
they did the last jedi
rigged my childhood like no
um
new star wars content hasn't wrecked my
childhood old star wars is still there
the prequels the original trilogy the
video games they will always be there
and i will always be able to have them
yeah but like it took so much for me to
officially call it quits
yeah i enjoyed so much it was at the
point where i was um like like a normal
dry grace fan and i did nothing but
[ __ ] and [ __ ] and [ __ ] about this
stuff that was coming out um
uh like i said a lot of the big problem
i didn't really have a problem with the
clone wars it was kind of distant and it
seemed kind of like interesting i never
really watched it um
rebels was the first thing i had to kind
of turn a blind eye to i watched the i
think the first half of the first season
um
and it kind of once again had that stank
on it
um
yeah um the thing that bothered me about
rebels specifically a the weird
the egregious depiction of the holocron
being it's just a fancy walkie-talkie
that's actified by the force yeah that
was that was dumb because holocrons were
you know like interfaces that they were
personality interfaces that jedi
couldn't that force users could interact
with yeah they were places to store
knowledge that someone could interact
with on a per on a conversational level
um not pre-recorded messages
um
says holocrons were even cooler they not
cooler isn't like they got dark and
gotten psychological
um
because sithal crunch could influence
her mind from what i read anyway and
that's the thing there's a lot of
contradictions it's like the bible you
pick and choose what you like
um
but and you could you had the license to
do that because it was kind of george
lucas didn't really pretend to have any
oversight about it yeah he didn't really
pretend like he was like oh i need to
make sure that all these details are
he's like no that's it's other people's
creations it's not mine yeah um he had a
hand in making sure that the video games
were all canon or could fit into a kind
of canon
not all of them not all of them but he
was like empire uh shadows of the empire
that was canon he built that around like
um a novel a series of comic books in
the video game and you had to take in
all of it to get the full story of what
happened between way before 2015.
just saying yeah um
and way better because so the empire
actually functioned as a game well yeah
it functioned it functioned it worked
because through the game you followed
dash rendar through the comics you
followed luke and through the novel you
followed princess leia yeah if i
remember correctly i might be off it
might be switched with the comics and
they kind of all kind of collected in
the end it was really yeah i think the
book was luke and the comics were laid
out that's interesting i i've took it
all in i read it all yeah i i should i
should do that thing because i only ever
played the game and i played it so many
times yeah i have the novel and the the
comments the collected comic but um so
like
there were you
george lucas lets you have the ability
to turn a blind eye to certain things
and not miss the story yeah
um because the most important story was
the movies yeah and that was always the
thing and that's why rebels really
started to piss me off
and clone wars too and it started to get
into like the force god [ __ ] because
it's like what's the point in having the
movies be the important story if you're
skipping that and going straight to
force gods well yeah like if the force
gods aren't
important enough to be in the movies
yeah
why did they exist so i just found it
kind of dumb and from just from like you
know like retrospect of the series
because when i started watching it uh it
had already finished or mostly finished
yeah and like you know we'll say i've
watched some of rebels and i i did like
when i watched rebels it's not that i
didn't like the chara it was very kid's
cartoon though at first like with the
which is so was clone wars and the funny
thing is the original clone wars was nah
which is much more childishly i did
watch that i loved it it's much more
adult
and so like um like that's actually
dealing with the horrors of war
especially like that one episode
with grievous yeah clone wars like he's
a slasher
does do that was a good episode did you
watch it yeah that's good uh clone wars
the uh cgi show did do that but like
from what i gathered uh the fans kind of
raving about like this one particular
episode was stuffed between twenty
filler i apologize about the motorbike
in the background
room um
um
so
immediately i'm kind of going into
rebels a little bit soured because i'm
like okay what's the point of the movies
being the spectacle if this is just
talking about force ghosts yeah force
gods
and then like it did the kids cartoon
thing where luke had to train for years
to lift a lightsaber
and ezra
lift a lightsaber yeah when he's trapped
in the ice cave with these with the oh
right right yeah he had to focus to
really pull that off and that was kind
of a life or death situation yeah
meanwhile either you get the lightsaber
you die meanwhile ezra after a week of
training is i'm lifting rocks now yeah
i'm
and it just got i'm like very gary's too
yeah yeah in a way that like i praised
avatar for not doing because you like
katara yeah as a character you over four
seasons you see her going from act three
three right cora was four yeah uh same
same number of episodes though
yeah cora had shorter seasons yeah so
like you know you saw qatar going from
not being able to do water bending
except by accident
to that like kind of final season where
she's confronting she's doing blood
bending yeah doing blood burning the
scene where she's confronting her
mother's murderer yeah like and she's
taking on a zula like yeah like you see
her progression you see her struggle um
and
like you argue oh well kids don't have
the attention span for that yeah well
why was avatar so successful yeah kids
hate like and this is i hate this kind
of presenting that you know like the
natural aptitude sort of thing kids hate
feeling
like they can't handle it yeah like
pander to but they hate feeling like
they can't do something because they're
not immediately an expert at it yeah and
so that's why i think kids give up so
many hobbies because like they don't
realize every hobby even if something
that comes naturally to you takes
practice yeah like piano or violin or
drawing or whatever so like even though
like rebels apparently had all these
really great character moments i could
not get past the stink yeah and then you
had kathleen kennedy which no offense to
a woman is an ex as an executive i think
that when she had her freedom she did a
fine job she did a fine job with episode
seven she defined job with episode eight
and the one between row one rogue one
all great it's when she started reading
i think personally rogue one and episode
eight are probably my favorite star wars
yes rogue one was so good
um which you know it's a failure because
it didn't make as much money as episode
seven
um but anyway like so like
kathleen kennedy like wanted star wars
to suddenly have this kind of organized
through line that you didn't get from
the old extended universe where you
could
stop into different books and different
comic books and it wouldn't feel like
something was violating something else
it's all one story the problem is that
did not happen
well yeah like for instance general
holdo yeah in episode eight
is in one of the leia books where you
get
all of her backstory completely
different character no no really not i
heard it i heard that she was much
she was more eccentric but that kind of
played up as like okay she's like 60
years old by the time you see her in
episode 8. so she's you know matured but
she's still still got purple hair yeah
um you know her hair is still kind of uh
cotton candy
um
and so she's matured but you see that
maturation happen um
and that works but
the people who didn't read the book were
like hold us a [ __ ]
and it's like no no no no you you need
her backstory but it's like we didn't
get her backstory because that's in a
book yeah and
a lot of people don't read
books yeah in general
let alone like specifically you know
especially the leia book which is almost
entirely about politics yeah
and like i think that the reveal and as
a critique of episode 8 i feel like
holdo's reveal is going to be like we're
finally seeing her on screen and that's
kind of how it was kind of depicted it's
like we haven't really earned she was in
one book and it was published like a
year or two earlier yeah it's like it
was a much bigger deal seeing ashoka in
live action yeah because you had seen
her for
years and years in animation and now you
were seeing her in live action even
though she was supposed to and so like i
i've i'd always kind of known there was
weirdness in the star wars universe like
people like there were creators who kind
of made these really weird statements
being like there are two separate forces
one is light and one is dark and you can
draw from one or the other rather than
being the force being a neutral force
and how it's the user that brings their
own darkness yeah byod um
bring your own darkness uh
used to be a t-shirt um
so our recorder just had a little bit of
a hiccup uh the batteries died so we're
just going the
there's like two minutes that are
missing but we're just gonna skip ahead
to um
the thing that we started talking about
when we realized that the recorder had
died which was how marvel is another
thing that um
just kind of
was great and sucks now
uh so
i'll hand it over to nick because he is
the marvel expert yeah yeah i can't
really call myself a marvel expert
anymore because i haven't really picked
up a comic book in
yeah but talk about like so like but my
kind of why you were a marvelous
adventure into marvel uh was i was in
university i wasn't having a great time
i discovered wiccan and hulkling um
and this is back when i still had
optimism about you know characters and
you know representation i could consume
media like that um
and so like as someone a normal person
does i was like i don't know the back
story to this so i'm just going to learn
all of it
[Laughter]
so over one summer i read about 2 000
comic books sorry for the background
noise all of the avengers from 1963 to
2005 bearing a spewis a few issues in
the 90s
um and the annuals yeah um
i i i had so much stuff just kind of
memorized and
especially if you know how like earlier
comic books were written they were they
were a novel and
i picked up a trick um there is so much
text in these things all you have to do
look at the pictures yeah that's it look
at the pictures if you don't know what's
going on go back a few pages and start
and read a few lines of dialogue that's
everything you need to know and that's
to jack kirby's credit is yeah where the
art is so
clear and even other artists of the time
even if they weren't as good as jack
kirby uh and you know you look at jack
kirby's art and it's like this face is
wonky it's like yeah because he had to
put crank through like 50 issues a month
yeah um it's like and it wasn't about
the detail it wasn't about the you know
the facing the faces or the shading or
the the technique the the jack kirby was
all about the anatomy yeah making sure
that he told because stanley wrote the
outline for a comic book handed it to
jack kirby jack kirby did the entire
thing yeah and then stan lee came in
later and added dialogue where necessary
and then he went over the whole thing
again and added a narration that said
exactly what the dialogue was saying
uh that was just how it worked and
that's how i learned that you could just
skip what was being written um so like
there was a very strong
urgence for comic book artists to get
the story across in pictures like
imagine if there's no dialogue yeah um
and
that's really when i started to fall out
of love with comic books is when they
stopped doing that in the mid to late
2000s
and it was splash pages action um the
amount of story that happened in one
avengers title from the 60s from the 60s
or 70s that's a that's a an event yeah
yeah it's now
you are i realized i was not getting my
money's worth i was you know like for
instance when we were working on the
scarlet witch video i read through some
of the older even i think they were only
from the 80s yeah and
yeah in three comic books there was so
much story three issues there was so
much story there
that
is what would fill a six-month event
yeah marvel event crossover thing now
yeah yeah it was ridiculous and so i
feel kind of i felt kind of cheated at
first i'm like i'm a fan of this stuff
so i'm going to keep going
um no one also i also never was told
never to follow a comic book title
follow writers yeah always follow
writers don't even follow characters
unfortunately i follow characters which
means that some of my favorite
characters got dragged through the mud
by bad writers sorry not sorry
um
it happens
yeah i'm just saying like a particular
one that we're gonna get to we're gonna
get to to that
um
so i wish i had had the foresight to
follow writers even across dc and marvel
across other characters um i wish i'd
done that a bit more but you know i
stuck with the avengers the avengers was
my baby i kept at it
um
so there was a [ __ ] and um
i loved the old comic books especially
from the 80s uh the 70s were fun too but
um following avengers disassembled this
seems to be where the switch was
when we went from having these very
descriptive pictures these smaller these
pages with smaller panels that showed
you and told you more
to an entire page of jessica drew
sitting at a table
while steam from her coffee cups rises
over four panels yeah and like yes
you're getting the sense that she's
waiting
that was once what narration was meant
to accomplish but we don't do narration
in comic books anymore god forbid
um so comic books like it became splash
spectacle it became
busy it became you know like we have to
do as much as possible as little space
as possible and we're not doing a whole
lot as it is
um
characters got put to the sidelines for
just having more action less character
development um
less continuity uh believe it or not and
i i actually kind of had this out with
hector hector did the um art for my book
which was referenced earlier um hector
barros is on twitter
i mean i kind of complained as like is
this just me because he's an artist he
does comment he's a huge comic fan like
is this just me or is this like actually
happening it's like no this is something
that i've noticed with the industry is
they they're way too busy there's too
much going on one page
you know the comic book where super
super boy john um meets his boyfriend
yeah um i could not figure out what was
going on across a page
so much stuff was happening panels were
overlapping yeah um things were bleeding
out of panels into other panels it's
like how do i read this yeah and it's
like because there's so much um emphasis
on flash and awe and i completely get
that it's kind of hilarious that reading
american comic books
it's
even it's so hard to follow sometimes
where it's like wait
where you think you're following where
the next dialogue thing is but it's like
no it's actually at this other part
who's talking right now the dialogue
bubbles are so far away from where the
face is like and it's so hilarious
because like reading manga even though
it's backwards from what i'm you know
you're reading right to left instead of
left to right it's easier to follow yeah
yeah
um
so yeah like that that kind of was like
kind of an initial struggle with comic
books but also like the content just
became so superficial yeah um it was all
about bigger
we we've talked about this a few times
like comic books are an episodic form of
media and episodic me means it's
television in book form episodic means
that this is a story that is occurring
regularly it is going to be projected to
the future there is no set and
determined ending this ending this is
opposed to what i would just define as
epic narrative even though like you know
like whatever happened to baby jane or
who's afraid of virginia woolf that's
technically epic in this context because
there is a set ending there is a
beginning middle and an end okay epic
versus episodic yeah um
ongoing versus episodic that's better
yeah
um i just know episodic is the ongoing i
don't anyway
closed ended versus episodic yeah so
marvel through the process of brian
michael bendis's um
crossover events brown milk appendices
you may just hear him have described as
having a deconstructive uh writing style
and that means he likes to take a
character
and basically um
deconstruct his character and page and
what that means is he likes to explore
what this makes this character tick yeah
uh he likes to sit peter park ultimate
peter parker down and be like okay
let's guide him let's guide you the
reader through elements of peter
parker's life that will help you
understand how peter parker thinks what
were the formative elements of his life
which works really well i think for like
his ultimate spider-man run because like
i i've read them before but i actually
just bought the first volume of the
ultimate spider-man omnibus which is
like huge it's like a thousand pages um
it's like 30 pounds
um
and like i'm gonna read that i think
over the summer because it was
i never got to kind of read them in the
proper order
um
and i think he did an incredibly good
job with it with spider-man really
deconstructed this is something that
people have said about brian miller this
says he does solo characters really
really really well he cannot write a
team and he should be by law kept away
from teams
um because he can only focus on one team
member at a time yeah and all the other
characters become generic i need this
character to do this for this character
by the way i just want to say there's
people outside talking and i apologize
profusely if that's bothering some of
you because i know that
um it might be hard to pay attention
when there's voices in the background
i'm really sorry it's kind of warm we
need to keep the patio door open or else
have the air conditioning on which is
also nice
um
i don't notice them i'm sorry um
so
um so that works really well in certain
situations some people just don't like
that deconstructive style and i don't
think that really works if you are in an
ongoing thing like if you're doing alias
like which was all which was never going
to be an ongoing series that's great
because it means jessica
jones jessica jo i was thinking jessica
drew spider woman um jessica jones
uh has her character progression she has
her beginning middle and end she has her
character development she develops the
story ends when it ends yeah and
that's a good story that's how you tell
a good story
are is an ongoing avengers title a good
place to tell that story yeah
uh because this you're not you're
suddenly moving from a medium where
you're developing hyper focusing on one
character in their emotional development
to a group of people
who have other people developing that
character who also cannot have an ending
yeah you can't develop your characters
in that way at the same keel that he
really wanted to and that again is one
of the reasons i really like manga is
because it's one yes uh mangaka
i think is is the the creators
i i think they're called mangaka um
they're the writers and and artists of
manga um
they kind of they follow it through
like dragon ball z was just one writer
attack on titan was just one writer and
if there's more stories to tell they
tell more stories well yeah but like
there's there's offshoot titles from
like attack on titan yeah offshoot
comics that are written by other people
that the main line is just one writer
yeah and he follows it from beginning to
end and
like in many cases
uh mangakas have
the ending planned from the very
beginning and even though it might go
for they plan like okay it's going to be
20 volumes and maybe it ends up being
39.
that they still have the the ending plan
it's just that things grow in the talent
yeah same thing with like like tolkien
said about lord of the rings the tale
grew in the telling breaking bad the
same thing happened yeah breaking bad
was supposed to be three seasons it
ended up being five that's not uncommon
um and sometimes can work to the benefit
of the of a piece of medium some can
sometimes can be a detriment when a
producer demands more seasons of a
series that really doesn't need it yeah
um and you know you have your series
where you think of where i say that but
like so having that kind of story of
beginning middle and end
uh doesn't work
if you're in an episodic storytelling
yeah um and brian michael bendis tried
his best to do that and what that ended
up being was
this isn't a bendis thing sorry i'm i'm
trying to move you along
um
it's it's this isn't about bendis this
is right yeah i blame him because he
kind of pulled the launcher yeah but
this this is the marvel thing um
you you you blame bendis it's the
editors it's not the writers but anyway
the the thing that has really
you were never
as depressed about marvel comics moving
on as you were with the mcu's recent
um
[ __ ] yeah um and that kind of ties in
because like as i was abandoning marvel
because they were kind of really leaning
heavily marvel comics marvel comics
because they were like every
few months there was a universe
shattering event yeah every few months a
new a character as that was happening
the mcu was coming into fruition they
were which gave you a marvel outlet that
what that was doing long buildings
long buildups and it was very stable
because there was a clear directed
oversight uh there was an understanding
that yes these stories will have an
ending because actors will age out of
the role so these characters won't be
able to be here and especially with like
the end of phase one kind of setting up
thanos it's like okay we know that
there's a there is a if not an ending
climax
that is already built in thanos is going
to be a climax to this story um
which i think happened and i don't think
they knew what the second arc was going
to be and i think that's the problem of
what happened with the mcu because phase
4 has been a
i don't want to say it's been a disaster
but phase four has been a hot mess
yeah a hot mess you've gotten some
really awesome things out of it like one
division and even the loki series
and hawkeye i loved hakka like kate
bishop is like
kate but then i want to show just of
kate and elena yeah but then you have it
but then you have a situation where like
you're cut where kevin feige is like oh
the avengers are young avengers are
coming the young avengers were coming
and like you have one young avenger
who's in her 20s another one who is a
teenager and two others who are children
yeah and so
i'm assuming when the young avengers do
show up kamala khan is going to be on
the team yeah and cassie also weird
situation right she's there
um and so like
you have shang chi pulling the series in
one direction
you have black widow
being its own thing
um you have the tv shows sending con
very conflicting information about
what's the state of what this universe
is
and it just doesn't really seem like
there's
that that direction that marvel used to
i do not know what that noise is
um
that the direction that marvel used to
have is lacking and you know like
well yeah because it was very clear
here's my theory of what's going on with
marvel um
the movies for a very long time there
were about two a year
um
and i think kevin feige had a very firm
grasp on what was happening with each
movie
um
and then it became three year and i i
think he still had a good grasp on it
what was going on the art the marvel
machine became a well-oiled oiled
machine yeah i think very well was not
too much he had directors and writers
and and and everyone that he trusted but
then when disney said okay we need
marvel to prop up disney plus basically
and so in one year you had one division
loki what if uh american captain america
and hawkeye in one year you had five
marvel series on disney plus
all of which kevin feige has to oversee
at the same
black widow and spider-man oh forgot
about spider-man i thought that was this
would have been sony but i guess kevin
feige would have had he still yeah he's
still yeah so there's like
five tv shows and four movies that this
one man is being told to oversee yeah
and i think at some point
it's not that he lost interest or
anything like that but as we talked
about in the last episode i think a
burnout hits yeah like he did you
especially because in that one year how
many different flavors of multiverse we
got yeah and i think honestly here
i think he knew like okay i am reaching
a saturation point where i am not going
to be able to minutely control the
things that need to be minutely
controlled and so
he gave the eternals to chloe zhao
because he's like she's an oscar-winning
director she's a fantastic director
she'll be able to do this but then
everyone was like this doesn't seem like
a marvel movie and there's way too much
here
and like i think i think this evening
is that the eternals was very
disconnected from everything else so it
didn't yeah but it still gave a stank to
marvel
um
like
my language i think yeah like i think it
should have been uh mini seriously very
very serious and then i think he was
like okay doctor strange is safe because
i'm giving it to
sam raimi who has already proven himself
with the spider-man movies he's you know
he's a you know well-known very talented
director
but then it turns out the sam raimi and
the writer of dr strange neither of them
watched one division and then decided to
make a movie
or they have this this character
who is at the center of the story
who they have not done the homework for
um
and so
he was kind of i think handing it off to
them thinking they're professionals
they'll know what to do i can trust them
while i work with you know x y and z
and they were not trustworthy
and i think that's a problem because i
think disney is saying like we need more
marvel stuff because that's the cash
couch yeah star wars we're trying to
rebuild from the bottom up because we
[ __ ] it up yeah the parks are failing
the parks are the parks are not doing
well uh disney plus has next to nothing
marvel is the cash cow marvel is what we
need and
it's not working like with the most
recent series moon night moon night's
ratings were the have been the lowest of
any marvel show including what if yeah
and luna has another character like moon
and this sucks because my two favorite
comic characters are moon knight and the
scarlet witch yeah uh for completely
different reasons they're very
completely different characters but like
uh scarlet witch is my favorite because
like i follow i made it i wrote an
entire video about her
two at this point but um i just love her
progression i love what she signifies i
love her powers and i love her struggles
it's so very human even though she is
one of the least human characters
yeah
excuse me and moon knight is just very
psychological and cerebral and it's a
very interesting take on batman and
marvel has a few of those they have
daredevil
um
yeah yeah yeah wolverine and you know
like moon knight as kind of like
different variants about like hey this
is us doing batman and moon knight kind
of fits that more kind of violent
deliberately crazy version that batman
has but like very struggling
and so like i haven't seen moon knight
yet i would like to still
um but like i'm sad that another thing
i'm sad about is that they apparently
their cgi is getting worse progressively
um not necessarily
i've seen people ripping into she-hulk
yeah the thing with she-hulk is doing
cgi of something that's supposed to look
very human
is difficult yeah you get away with it
with the hulk because although he's
human he's very inhuman looking his
proportions are wrong whereas she-hulk's
proportions are right um
you know she-hulk is really just a big
woman yeah um and because of that
it's difficult to make it feel realistic
but at the same time like you know we
talk about how much marvel content sorry
about that but talk about how much
marvel content came out last year that
nine things and like that's a lot of
strain to put the cgi
uh team under at disney and disney owns
a
a but but you know what you know [ __ ]
off no because not you not you
but like disney because like
like you can say like well you know the
special effects in x weren't that good
the special effects in one division or
the special effects in um
doctor strange not that good special
effects in uh spider-man not that good
like sony was literally releasing like
dlc
to the movie theaters with updated
effects i've seen the trailer for
stranger things season four marvel can't
[ __ ] touch the special effects in
stranger things season four so why is it
that netflix has better special effects
than one of the largest media
conglomerates on the planet yeah
why
why like answer me
tell me i need to know this is something
that marvel's had a huge struggle with
consistently that star wars did not
until the last movie um
that movie was such a mess it was i
don't talk about it it wasn't even a hot
mess it was just
it was like a three day old cold mess it
was a disaster disaster um
like cold piss disaster in the same way
that like you know people kind of are i
heard you say that people are comparing
doctor strange to the rise of skywalkers
and critics yeah um i
because i i don't think i can bring
myself to watch it even though
apparently like they're horrible
there is still gay up heel there like i
see my gaze on twitter kind of be like
oh my god this movie she sir like the
movie sucked but she searched i'm like i
i can't engage with that well that's the
response that's basically the everyone
who didn't like the movie was like i
hated it because of what they did to
wanda but she was the best part of the
movie because she
you know went balls to the wall yeah and
and like you know i i'm glad that
elizabeth olsen makes knows how to play
a good villain but it's like that's not
wanda that's not my character yeah that
isn't who and they've made it very clear
she's not dead she'll be coming back
there's a there's a scarlet witch movie
in development just trying to shoot that
ending then like they've done the whole
thing and it's like
okay well why did you do that ending
then yeah
like like you said kevin feige has
probably stretched way too thin yeah
because you know you trust these people
who have done good on other things the
head writer on loki that you know sam
raimi
and you know they've done good things
and then they don't do the research and
either of them watch one division sam
raimi watched the first two episodes of
one division and liked it and then was
like okay but doesn't really realize
that the entire show is about this is
her trauma bubble yeah that you know
it's about this woman processing trauma
and grief and that's what the entire
show is about and then you and then it's
like the next time you see her she's the
biggest villain of the mcu dragon lady
bad
yeah
she is daenerys in the last two episodes
of game of thrones yeah and it's like
it's this needless flip and apparently
like one of the reasons the winds of
winter the the new
book has been taking so long is because
when game of thrones came out yeah and
george rr martin saw that ending
apparently he rewrote
oh the winds of winter nice and that's
why it's taking so long well
that he went in and rewrote a ton of
chapters in that book that actually
makes me give me some makes me respect
him a little bit
um because i know you do it faster but
like well yeah like he saw the disaster
that it was and was like
i have no doubt that if he did want to
go with the madqueen daenerys kind of
angle there would be more build up there
would be more build up and it would be
more justified but that's 2 000 pages
always my argument is that it needed it
didn't either change it just needed more
or it needed to change yeah
but like with marvel it's like you know
like i am so heartbroken over what they
did to wanda
because like the fact that that content
managed to slip through and it's like
that's not the character in the comics
that's not the character that's been
built up through
uh the movies
that's not the character that i've been
kind of like identifying with and
putting a lot of my kind of like
hope and joy into and it's like i
feel it made me feel broken like that
kind of bro like that was kind of at the
last per last episode kind of like at
the peak of my burnout and i'm like i'm
frustrated because like for for years
literally years it was give the x-men to
disney because disney will do it right
and now disney has the x-men
and it's like
oh now it's when they're losing their
grip yeah um because like unlike you i
am a fan of the x-men i've always liked
the x-men and the characters and the
stories and all of that i've always
loved it um i've always liked the movies
and the tv show and the comic club like
reading through the one the video that
came out recently like i had a lot more
x-men hate and you're like nick i need
to take this out yeah
uh and most of the comments are
on it are like
why do you hate the x-men so much yeah
there is a very avid fan base
yeah because the x-men are great
characters like i know you don't like
them but i like the characters i don't
like the way that they are handled okay
well that's anyway uh let's hear under
there um
but like now i'm like
oh i don't think disney's gonna do this
right i don't think disney's gonna make
magneto a holocaust survivor i don't
think they're gonna go there i don't
think they're going to go with the
sarajevo angle either
i don't think you can you've got to have
them be a holocaust survivor and i don't
think they're going to do it i don't
think they want to touch the holocaust
they they managed to skip over it
entirely with super nazis with captain
america so i really don't think they're
going to even mention the holocaust and
that's probably very problematic
because the x-men are kind of innately a
darker kind of storyline because you are
dealing with trauma well you're dealing
with trauma but you're dealing with
subjugation your genocide like the
mutant genocide too yeah like you're
you're literally dealing with a federal
government trying to genocide an entire
group of people and you know lots of
people say wanda did the genocide and
it's like
yeah okay whatever that's a one-time
event but
like like this is the story of the x-men
is constant persecution and that's why
you have people like magneto who become
quote the villain because they're sick
and tired of being persecuted and you
have people like scott summers breaking
and becoming the villain because they're
tired of being persecuted and like you
can like the argument is very valid of
saying like well yeah maybe the x-men
aren't a great example of persecuted
people because they have [ __ ]
superpowers but
like that is kind of the what they are
they are an analogy for persecuted
people
and
you know the government's wanting to
euthanize them and get rid of them and
sterilize them and all sorts of stuff
and
it's like
i don't think disney's gonna go there no
like like like they said with the first
two episodes of moon night like it's
like i don't like people are like this
is i don't think disney's a great place
to have these discussions about severe
mental disorders
because like mental health yeah um
well dissociative identity disorder yeah
i know but disorder
people don't like calling it is so
that's fair okay uh but just you know
like that is a
that can be a very dark
um area of mental health yeah um and
especially you know given mark spector's
history like you know you can't really
talk disney can't really talk about he
was a mercenary but left for dead but
resurrected um and you like talk about
what being a mercenary actually means
yeah um and like you know it's like not
like oh i get paid to like beat people
up i was like no like when you're the
kind of mercenary mark spector was like
in an insurrection in the middle east
you are black helicopters yeah and
disney's not willing to have that
discussion there disney's not willing to
have a discussion about
um you know like the
uh d.i.d uh and especially it's not the
way that split did it with um night
shyamalan yeah um so like you know like
maybe moon knight isn't the best kind of
place to have this discussion if you're
like well yeah moon knight would have
been better with kind of the netflix
treatment where they were willing to go
a bit darker like with daredevil and
jessica jones and stuff like that
because like disney has said like we're
definitely bringing back daredevil and
jessica jones and it's like really
you're bringing back jessica jones
you're and like they were even talking
about bringing back purple man i'm like
really really disney's going to do
purple man is jessica still going to be
an alcoholic yeah she's still going to
be well i think so because tony they did
this tony stark demon in a bottle they
did he got drunk once
for most of the movie he was drunk
um
but like they did that so i i wouldn't
be surprised if they did actually i
don't remember that movie
but like jessica jones
and purple man specifically like that's
a very dark villain yeah and they
they've been talking about wanting to
bring him back and like bring back david
tennant and stuff and i'm like i'm all
for you know
i want more of him because he was an
amazing villain but
i don't think disney could do that well
especially because like you know look at
the difference between uh the daredevil
show and hawkeye show it's like both
dealt with organizations
and daredevil was literally talking
about human trafficking look at kingpin
and daredevil look at kingpin and
hawkeye and like hawkeye two completely
different organized crime angle was very
much like kind of above it all it's like
you had the tracksuit mafia and it's
like oh you they make jokes about being
russian and uh the jokes about imagine
dragons and it's like yeah but like
daredevil dove into
the kind of things that organized crime
does yeah and like i said like
taking just look at kingpin from
daredevil the net first season of
daredevil and kingpin in
um
hawkeye and it's like
in daredevil kingpin was terrifying he
was terrifying
and in hawkeye he was a joke yeah
so it shows
in my opinion disney is not willing to
go where they need to
if they're not willing to go dark for
their villains
how are they going to go dark with their
heroes
ooh that's a good angle and the easy
solution is to make them crazy and turn
them into a villain
like they did with juan yeah
because like god forbid you have any
kind of uh psychological nuance when it
comes to a character
stop
god forbid you have any psychological
nuance when it comes to a woman yeah
because you know like it's okay that
bucky is struggling with his ptsd and
sometimes slips up a few times it's okay
that tony has trump probably and has
killed thousands hundreds or thousands
of people over the years that's fine and
tony committing war crimes because he
saw space
yeah but you know like tony creating
ultron and all of that stuff but wanda
taking a town prisoner for a week
um because she needed a because her
psychology said honey you're burnt out
and you need a break from reality so i'm
gonna take over okay and she's like
please don't they're like i got this
yeah like that's and like yeah it sucks
that she took away their free will for a
week that's horrible but you know she
didn't kill thousands of people until
doctor strange where she did
because you know they
they they kind of lost the grasp of the
character
um
and again i think it's you know kevin
feige is trying to delegate yes and he's
delegating to the wrong people yeah
because like you know like sam rami has
had some hits but he's also had some
very very misses and like they've said
like they want to do
secret wars
uh as the next big kind of crossover
but they're bringing back the russo
brothers for us and i think that's kevin
feige being like i need to bring them
back because i trust them these people
know what's going on what i don't like
about secret wars is that they're going
back in time and doing it over the blip
no no that's secret invasion
oh
really confuses me because like
nick fury is the main character in
secret invasion but he got
snapped
yeah it makes no sense yeah but no
secret wars
is supposed to be the big
multi-dimensional crossover event you
know okay was you know how in spider-man
you figured out that nick fury on earth
was actually the alien yeah what if it's
those two that got blipped maybe yeah
maybe but who knows yeah um
but um
um
yeah secret wars is going to be like a
multi-dimensional crossover event that's
where you're going to have tom cruise as
iron man that's where you're going to
probably bring wanda back like all that
stuff is going to happen you're going to
get this the symbiote suit and stuff
like that for spider-man that's going to
be in secret wars um
but he's bringing back the russos for
that because
it's like
i can trust them to do the job because
they did winter soldier they did civil
war they didn't but then again
everything like the last year of marvel
and kind of just you know doing really
dirty by my character in a way that i
don't understand how they can possibly
redeem wanda after murdering after
genociding
wizards
and
getting really dark with the illuminati
yeah the luminaire are not fantastic
people but you know like bisecting peggy
carter snapping professor x's yeah
cutting cutting peggy carter in half
snapping professor x's neck
richards had it coming but the black
blowing up black bolt's head yeah
squishing captain marvel the black
captain marvel yeah
and just like
really like i i like
if what's it gonna take like oh and and
and spaghettifying mr fantastic like i
said he had it coming uh
um
uh with the needlessly detailed
fantastic four suit um
like i don't know what it's gonna take
to get me back on board with marvel like
i completely understand that i'm i'm not
like
even thor wreck not thor ragnarok thor
love and thunder like i'm excited for it
but at the same time i'm like i'm gonna
wait for the reviews before i pre-buy my
tickets and even then i'm gonna go in
late so i don't have to look at chris
pratt yeah um
because i love the gore the god butcher
storyline in the comics i love the
mighty thor storyline in the comics i
want that i wanna see that i wanna see
natalie portman jacked because she's
[ __ ] jacked
uh like i want to see that
i don't need to see chris pratt so you
know i'll go in 20 minutes late um
and you know if the reviews are like
it's amazing i'll go see it but i'm not
pre-buying my tickets like i pre-bought
the doctor strange tickets um
like not necessary
and you know it sucks that like for me
for the last 10 years marvel's kind of
been in my bag like that's been the
thing i'm most excited about all the
time i'm always like looking forward to
the next marvel thing and now i'm not
looking forward to anything that marvel
has and we were talking about this
earlier because like i've kind of marvel
was like the marvel cinematic universe
was kind of like the last thing that i
was really that was really kind of
giving me any kind of anticipation and
it started to wane a bit like
honestly it was during one division the
mephisto discourse
really beat me down
like just the constant what no not not
you like just like the the constant
speculation the oh what is this and what
is this and what is this therapy that's
what television is there i know but
people went through the kamala khan
trailer and found a black character in
the background and said is this going to
be miles morales
that's what fandom is
you watch the trailers you watch the
shows and the movies and you speculate
you were not a part of the game of
thrones discourse for eight years
i was where it was just every episode it
was oh this happened
and oh i think this is the theorizing
that's what drives fandom i guess so but
like you know so like that is necessary
for media to exist that kind of wore me
out a little bit but you know i was
still engaging i was still looking
forward to things we still watched
hawkeye
um
we went to see spider-man and the
eternals on opening night for each
like i was still engaged but like you
know like this kind of really pushed me
in a way and i think in a way that i
think kind of soured and and may sour
the future for me
um just kind of being like like
and i get that because like i understand
the frustration with what's going on not
just with wanda and moon knight but just
kind of like the lack that it was so
strong for so long and now that it's it
seems to be waning it seems like the
control is gone the not even the control
the kind of um oversight
no the direction of
sure i was going to use a word but
you're confusing me
but um
just that there's there's something
missing now yeah and
the same thing happened with star wars
where star wars even with the prequels
even though the prequels aren't that
great they felt special
and
even like
episode 8
it's like
probably the worst star wars movie
episode eight yeah not episode eight
episode episode two
um yeah
probably attack of the clones probably
the worst star wars movie
um
but when i've re-watched it
it still feels special yeah because it
wanted to show you new things well yeah
it was because i think i because i
remember going to the theater with my
dad and watching it and feeling yeah
like
this is something new and cool george
lucas is obviously just one of the best
visual storytellers that and all of the
movies gave you something new yeah
whereas the disney stuff is
very obsessed with reprising the old
yeah like episode seven felt special
because it was you know it's back to the
millennium falcon and han and chewie and
it's all there and like all of that
felt very special um but it was just
episode eight felt very special because
it was like oh wow star wars is going in
a different direction
and then episode nine and solo just kind
of shat all over it the tv shows are
very
it's not it doesn't feel
special
like that's what i mean like you know
when george lucas saw an opportunity to
make some things grand he took it and so
when he saw an opportunity to take
things in a new
direction that hadn't been done before
he took it the tv shows and the star
wars movies were very hesitant to go in
any new direction yeah i know that like
uh a couple of days before this podcast
is released the the obi-wan show will
start on disney plus i haven't seen it
but i've seen the trailers and i get no
i don't get that special feeling from
the trailer especially because they've
promised two fights with darth vader and
obi-wan kenobi which is just like okay
so you've completely removed the power
of their confrontation in a new hope
yeah
uh you know i felt a presence i have not
felt since implied that you know the
last time you met each other [ __ ] went
down um not like yeah you got chopped up
not just like oh funny like funny funny
game to you here apparently darth vader
is german
it's just like funny running into you
here just like you know like just kind
of gal venting across the galaxy having
lightsaber fights with darth vader like
yeah
it doesn't seem and it removes the
component of specialness
yeah um and i think
that is
a disney thing
i think because it's all disney is so
formulaic you're right yeah he built all
of their new content based on feedback
from their performer content it's like
when was the last time an original
property came out of disney that felt
special
so
honestly tangled kind of
i've never actually seen tangled no
tangled was a lot of fun and very well
constructed as a movie better than
frozen but didn't do as well uh i think
because there was less to let less girl
power to latch on onto there wasn't
frozen was sold on let go
if let it go had not been in frozen i
don't think it would have done as well
you're absolutely right um cause frozen
was the first frozen was a bit of a mess
frozen two
felt new and special
not an original property
that's true uh let's go back
further
um
apparently john carter of mars wasn't
that bad but i need to go back to 2003.
which one's that pirates pirates the
first pirates of the caribbean
oh that's the last time an original
thing came out of disney that i was like
this is different
i like this yeah and you know what it
was the executives got pushed away they
did everything in your power to push the
executives away yeah the director was
protecting johnny depp and whatever he
was doing yeah
like
because the directors were just like
they saw the dailies
he's got a row in the fountain is he
drunk is he gay he's ruining the film
and it's like he's none of these things
and all of these things he's just being
a pirate
and
you know now
the specialness isn't there whereas
i watch heartstopper and i'm like this
feels special i watch
the
you know the
everything everywhere all at once and
i'm like this feels special oh yeah and
you know we need to watch the northmen
uh there are things
that are coming out that aren't disney
discussing that like i think that's the
problem with disney
absorbing so much media is that i had
that we had we were watching chip and
dale we're kind of talking this the
other day it's like
with disney absorbing so much media
is this just where media is going to
automatically sanitize itself and moving
towards that disney brand yeah and so
everything feels like you know
incredibly sanitized very safe because
my great criticism about chip and dale
was that they just they explained all of
the jokes that needed to land like um
they talk about going and going to the
uncanny valley because you know like if
you're from california you know where
the valley is yeah i'm a valeno
um you know what the valley is you know
that it's kind of sketchy we're in the
we're in the valley the uncanny valley
and then they explained that this is a
place where all of the old cgi
characters from the new year like you
could have just said the uncanny valley
and then showed someone from the polar
express or beowulf
or something else because like you know
like the kids or final fantasy watching
this
kids watching this movie aren't going to
know what an uncanny valley is they're
also not going to know get a lot of
these references because these movies
did not have staying power but
explaining the jokes so that the kids
get it is going to diminish the value of
the joke for the adults and make it not
funny for the kids either because they
don't know what i don't think it
diminishes it for the adults i think
you're kind of hyper critical on that
um i don't think it diminishes it i i
think the joke is still there i don't
think the explanation ruins it
um it doesn't the comedic timing is off
with the explanation though but you're
already laughing before they explain it
yeah um at least i was when i watched it
because i i laughed and i was like oh i
liked it better as just like the stinger
but yeah but um yeah you know you don't
need to explain the jokes they're
explaining it for the kids who don't get
it even though the kids are still not
going to get it probably but it's
because they're not going to get the
reference
um and so like you know like it's with
me like i kind of built my life around
these kind of pieces of media and so
that now that i'm kind of distancing
myself from them because they do kind of
have that disney vibe to them like i'm
kind of left a little bit lost and
listless like i don't really know what
to kind of gravitate towards and it's
easier for you because you don't have
i'm replacing them yeah you're much
better replacing those things than i am
whereas attack on titan is my obsession
now that's where i'm watching the theory
videos and everything even though i know
how it ends i very much like um
i develop my life around a series of
habits and patterns yeah and so it's
really hard to start new habits and it's
really hard to break them yeah um so
like i'm working to kind of find
something new to kind of focus on i
don't know i'm accruing a lot of monkey
kid lego so maybe that'll be it
yeah like i've actually been thinking
about like checking out naruto or naruto
um some other anime that are i've heard
very conflicting things about naruto
yeah um
uh one punch
like i've been thinking about a bunch of
different stuff checking out a bunch of
different stuff that i'll probably do
while you're gone
um
but yeah it's sad that these formative
pieces of media
like star wars and marvel
are
becoming
so corporatized yeah especially insanity
star wars especially which was meant to
be neither yeah like i for instance i
don't think you would have
i don't think disney would release
episode three
god no
like like i was kind of postulating to
you like can you imagine the look on
carrie's face when she read george lucas
actually killing the kids like wow like
like yeah like killing the younglings
even like having anakin be like
cut
choking a pregnant lady of course joking
you're pregnant well yeah but like
the hero
obi-wan cutting apart the villain yeah
like i don't think they would have done
that
and i don't think they will do that um
so you know star wars kind of star wars
was never edgy but it kind of lo what
edge it had it has lost i think yeah it
was it wasn't afraid because they
weren't even they weren't even brave
enough to just let kylo ren be a space
fascist yes they had to save him yeah
and they had to even though that at the
end of episode eight it was made clear
that rey is no not romantically
interested in this guy they had to
reopen that door to make him redeemable
yeah
but so that's our episode on
stuff that we liked and we don't like
anymore
but once gave us joy how disney
destroyed our childhood
um
so thank you guys for listening
um the next episode will be about
something i'm not sure what it will be
about but it will be about something it
will be another pre-recorded one so
again if we say anything about anyone
who has accidentally died um we
apologize in advance
um
so
yeah pre-recorded episode for the next
one as well and then we'll be back to
the normal episodes after that i believe
um so thank you so much for listening to
the padreon my name is
james and we will see you again
next week
[Music]